Welcome to raspicam's documentation!
====================================


Introduction
------------

The raspicam package started as a sandbox to play with the RasperryPi camera
module, but has evolved to a simple tool to run motion detection which can run
on other devices as well. And potentially other use-cases through the
implementation of image "pipelines".  Operations in these pipelines currently
exchange data which was aimed at motion detection though, so it may or may not
be applicable to other use-cases!


Installation
------------

While currently untested, the application should be installable by simply
running::

    pip install /path/to/repository

To grab the latest development version directly from the web you can do this::

    pip install git+https://github.com/exhuma/raspicam


Running The Application
-----------------------

Once installed, the application provides the executable ``raspicam``. If you
installed it system-wide, it should reside in ``/usr/bin/raspicam``. Installing
it in a virtual environment makes it available in ``/path/to/environment/bin``.

The executable offers three modes of execution: GUI, CLI and Web UI. The UI can
be selected via the command line. See the sections below.

Additional command-line flags are supported::

    raspicam --help


GUI
~~~

::

    raspicam gui

The graphical user interface has mainly been implemented as a simple way to
*see* what is going on during development. It does not offer any other
functionality than displaying the frames on screen as they are generated by the
application.

CLI
~~~

::

    raspicam cli

The Command-Line Interface is currently used as main way to run the
application. Other than logging it does nothing more than executing the default
image pipeline. The pipeline output will not be displayed.

Web UI
~~~~~~

::

    raspicam webui

The web interface is a quick-and-dirty way to access files which have been kept
in a :py:class:`~raspicam.storage.Storage`. It currently assumes the usage of a
:py:class:`~raspicam.storage.DiskStorage`.

.. warning::

    The web interface exposes direct access to files on disk. *Some* care has
    been taken to make it more difficult for an attacker to guess the
    filenames. But it is still possible for a crafty attacker to gain access to
    system files.

    This should **not be run in a public environment!**


Contents
--------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1

   scripting
   architecture
   configuration
   api/index


Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
